Installation

   For binary installation information see file INSTALL.
   For instructions on building from sources consult file BUILD 

Overview of GrADS

   The Grid Analysis and Display System (GrADS) is an interactive
desktop tool that is used for easy access, manipulation, and
visualization of earth science data. The format of the data may be
either binary, GRIB, NetCDF, or HDF-SDS (Scientific Data Sets). GrADS
has been implemented worldwide on a variety of commonly used operating
systems and is freely distributed over the Internet.

   GrADS uses a 4-Dimensional data environment: longitude, latitude,
vertical level, and time. Data sets are placed within the 4-D space by
use of a data descriptor file. GrADS interprets station data as well
as gridded data, and the grids may be regular, non-linearly spaced,
gaussian, or of variable resolution. Data from different data sets may
be graphically overlaid, with correct spatial and time
registration. Operations are executed interactively by entering
FORTRAN-like expressions at the command line. A rich set of built-in
functions are provided, but users may also add their own functions as
external routines written in any programming language.

   Data may be displayed using a variety of graphical techniques: line
and bar graphs, scatter plots, smoothed contours, shaded contours,
streamlines, wind vectors, grid boxes, shaded grid boxes, and station
model plots. Graphics may be output in PostScript or image
formats. GrADS provides geophysically intuitive defaults, but the user
has the option to control all aspects of graphics output.

   GrADS has a programmable interface (scripting language) that allows
for sophisticated analysis and display applications. Use scripts to
display buttons and dropmenus as well as graphics, and then take
action based on user point-and-clicks. GrADS can be run in batch mode,
and the scripting language facilitates using GrADS to do long
overnight batch jobs.

   Starting with version 1.9.0 GrADS can be extended with dynamically
linked plugins providing high performance user defined functions
and commands. Interfaces to Perl and Python allow GrADS to be scripted
and exchange data with these interpreted languages.

Additional Information

   Consult the GrADS website: http://grads.iges.org/grads/

   For information on GrADS extensions and interfaces to Perl and 
   Python consult the OpenGrADS wesite:  http://opengrads.org/
 
